ingest pipeline docs "ingest lag" (#1672)
elastic/docs-content: manage-data/ingest/transform-enrich/ingest-lag.md

---
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/docs/manage-data/ingest/transform-enrich/calculate-ingest-lag.html
applies_to:
  stack: ga
  serverless: ga
---

# Ingest Lag

Ingest lag is a recurring topic that deserves its own section. The goal is simple: calculate the time it takes from when a document is read to when it is received by Elasticsearch. Store this value in minutes, seconds, or milliseconds, and use it to create visualizations and alerts.

The basic calculation is:

> `event.ingested - @timestamp`

Author: Yes, but `event.created` is not created automatically in Elastic Agent anymore, thus you need to add this to *all* the integrations manually. We can add a recommendation for it.

## Understanding `event.ingested`

The `event.ingested` timestamp can be obtained in two ways:

- `_ingest.timestamp`  
  Available via mustache notation `{{_ingest.timestamp}}` in all processors except `script`.

- `metadata().now`
  Available only in the `script` processor. Use this instead of `_ingest.timestamp` when working with scripts.

Note that `event.ingested` is typically set in the **Fleet final pipeline**, which runs as the last step in the ingest process. Calculating the latency in **seconds** is usually sufficient for most use cases.

> ## Calculating Ingestion Latency

Author: Done

              ZonedDateTime start = ZonedDateTime.parse(ctx['@timestamp']);
              ctx.latency= ChronoUnit.SECONDS.between(start, metadata().now);
            """
          }}
        ]
    }
}
```

In the example above, we can see that the timestamp, when the Elastic Agent read the document was `3rd April at 10:00`, while the actual log message on the disk is from `3rd March`. If we calculate the difference at the first step, before any parsing, we can be confident that the result will be accurate. However, if we perform the calculation as the final step in the pipeline (which is typically the case with Elastic Integrations that use `@custom` pipelines), the timestamp of `2025-03-01` will be used as `@timestamp`, leading to an erroneous latency calculation.

While we can't always resolve every situation, the approach described above usually results in a "good enough" solution. For many use cases, simply using `@timestamp` is sufficient, as we expect the Elastic Agent to pick up logs as quickly as possible. During the initial onboarding of new data sources, there might be higher latency due to the ingestion of historical or older data.

## Architectures

> Regardless of the chosen architecture, it's a good practice to add a `remove` processor at the end of the pipeline to drop the `_tmp` field. The raw timestamps from the various processing steps are not needed, as the latency in seconds should be sufficient. For additional pipeline architectures, refer to the [Ingest Architectures](../ingest-reference-architectures.md) documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regardless of the chosen architecture, add a `remove` processor at the end of the pipeline to drop the `_tmp` field. The raw timestamps from the various processing steps are not needed, as the latency in seconds should be sufficient. For additional pipeline architectures, refer to [Ingest architectures](../ingest-reference-architectures.md).
```

}
```

### Elastic Agent => Elasticsearch

We can use `@timestamp` and `event.ingested` and calculate the difference. This will give you the following document. The `event.ingestion.latency` is in seconds.

```json
{
  "event": {
    "ingestion": {
      "latency": 443394
    }
  }
}
```

#### Script

```json
POST _ingest/pipeline/_simulate
{
    "docs": [{
        "_source": {
            "@timestamp": "2025-04-03T10:00:00.000Z",
            "message": "user: philipp has logged in",
            "_tmp": {
              "logstash": "2025-04-03T10:00:02.456Z"
            }

        }
    }],
    "pipeline": {
        "processors": [
          {
            "script": {
              "description": "Calculates entire ingestion flow latency",
              "if": "ctx['@timestamp'] != null",
              "source": """
                ZonedDateTime start = ZonedDateTime.parse(ctx['@timestamp']);
                ctx.putIfAbsent("event", [:]);
                ctx.event.putIfAbsent("ingestion", [:]);
                ctx.event.ingestion.latency= ChronoUnit.SECONDS.between(start, metadata().now);
              """
            }
          }
        ]
    }
}
```

> ### Elastic Agent => Logstash => Elasticsearch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Elastic Agent to Elasticsearch through Logstash
```

Avoid graphical arrows.

> In this scenario, we have an additional hop to manage. Elastic Agent populates the `@timestamp`, but Logstash does not add any timestamp by default. We recommend adding a temporary timestamp, for example by setting `_tmp.logstash_seen`. With this, you can calculate the following latency values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Elastic Agent populates the `@timestamp` field, but Logstash doesn't add any timestamp by default. Add a temporary timestamp, for example by setting `_tmp.logstash_seen`. With this, you can calculate the following latency values:
```

- Total latency: (`@timestamp - event.ingested`)
- Elastic Agent => Logstash: (`@timestamp - _tmp.logstash_seen`)

> - Logstash => Elasticsearch: (`_tmp.logstash_seen - event.ingested`)

Reviewer: Change the arrows to "to"

> These values can be especially helpful for debugging, as they allow you to quickly determine where the lag is introduced. Is the delay caused by the transfer from Elastic Agent to Logstash, or from Logstash to Elasticsearch?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These values can be especially helpful for debugging, as they allow you to quickly determine where the lag is introduced, and whether the delay is caused by the transfer from Elastic Agent to Logstash or from Logstash to Elasticsearch.
```

> Below is a script that calculates these differences, providing latency values for each of the stages mentioned above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This script calculates these differences, providing latency values for each of the stages previously mentioned.
```

```json
{
  "event": {
    "ingestion": {
      "latency_logstash_to_elasticsearch": 443091,
      "latency": 443093,
      "latency_elastic_agent_to_logstash": 1
    }
  }
}
```

> #### Script

Reviewer: Example script? What is this script for? Rewrite the heading to something more descriptive.

> If you want to remove the first calculation, you will need to ensure that the object `event.ingestion` is available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to remove the first calculation, ensure that the object `event.ingestion` is available.
```

                ctx.event.putIfAbsent("ingestion", [:]);
                ctx.event.ingestion.latency= ChronoUnit.SECONDS.between(start, metadata().now);
              """
            }
          },
          {
            "script": {
              "description": "Calculates logstash to Elasticsearch latency",
              "if": "ctx._tmp?.logstash != null",
              "source": """
                ZonedDateTime start = ZonedDateTime.parse(ctx._tmp.logstash_seen);
                ctx.event.ingestion.latency_logstash_to_elasticsearch=ChronoUnit.SECONDS.between(start, metadata().now);
              """
            }
          },
          {
            "script": {
              "description": "Calculates Elastic Agent to Logstash latency",
              "if": "ctx._tmp?.logstash != null",
              "source": """
                ZonedDateTime start = ZonedDateTime.parse(ctx['@timestamp']);
                ZonedDateTime end = ZonedDateTime.parse(ctx._tmp.logstash_seen);
                ctx.event.ingestion.latency_elastic_agent_to_logstash=ChronoUnit.SECONDS.between(start, end);
              """
            }
          }
        ]
    }
}
```

> ### Elastic Agent => Logstash => Kafka => Logstash => Elasticsearch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Elastic Agent => Logstash => Kafka => Logstash => Elasticsearch
```

Rewrite to something simpler. "Elastic Agent to Elasticsarch through Logstash and Kafka", for example.

Author: Regarding the arrows, I personally find them much more decisive and clear than `Elastic Agent to Elasticsearch through Logstash and Kafka` since that leaves a lot of ambiguity. Is it `Elastic Agent => Kafka => Logstash => Elasticsearch` or `Elastic Agent => Logstash => Kafka => Elasticsearch`, or any other variant.

> As with the previous scenario, adding an additional hop introduces another point where latency can occur. The recommendation here is to add another temporary timestamp field. For more details, refer to the [Elastic Agent => Logstash => Elasticsearch](#elastic-agent--logstash--elasticsearch) section above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As with the previous scenario, adding an additional hop introduces another point where latency can occur. The recommendation is to add another temporary timestamp field. For more details, refer to the previous section.
```

> Below is a script that calculates the latency for each step in the pipeline. The following values will be generated:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a script that calculates the latency for each step in the pipeline. The following values will be generated:
```

```json
{
  "event": {
    "ingestion": {
      "latency_logstash_to_elasticsearch": 443091,
      "latency_logstash_to_logstash": 1,
      "latency": 443093,
      "latency_elastic_agent_to_logstash": 1
    }
  }
}
```

> #### Script

Reviewer: Ditto. Headings should be different to work in table of contents (anchors are generated automatically unless specified manually through square brackets notation.

> #### Script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Example script [agent-to-es-logstash-kafka-example]
```

> If you want to remove the first calculation, you will need to ensure that the object `event.ingestion` is available. Of course you could merge all of the steps into one larger script. I personally like to separate it, so you can edit, modify and enhance exactly what you need.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To remove the first calculation, ensure that the object `event.ingestion` is available. You can also merge all of the steps into one larger script.
```

First person should not be used in docs. It's OK in blog posts.

```yaml
- script:
    lang: javascript
    source: >
      function process(event) {
          event.put("event.created", Date.now());
      }
```

## Architectures

Regardless of the chosen architecture, add a `remove` processor at the end of the pipeline to drop the `_tmp` field. The raw timestamps from the various processing steps are not needed, as the latency in seconds should be sufficient. For additional pipeline architectures, refer to [Ingest architectures](../ingest-reference-architectures.md).

## Logstash

When Logstash is added to the architecture we must add a timestamp, this can only be done by using Ruby and the simplest form is this:

> ```logstash

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```
````
